Let's not learn about character encoding and it's an absolutely fundamental lesson before we do any
programming that involves processing of text it is important to know about character encoding in case
you're not familiar with this topic then it is painful learning it now.
So let's get started with character encoding.
Let's start with absolute basics.
Most people classify files into bucket.
It is binary and text binary would include content like images audio and video right text is about files
with characters.
However fundamentally all files are binary that a sequence of bytes where each byte is a group of eight
bits on the bed is either 0 or 1.
So text files are also binary files.
It is just that they're stored in a certain way in binary all files whether they are binary or text
would look alike to computers hardware hollower software would make a distinction for instance bytes
are present in text are only handled by text processing software like Notepad word pide or editors like
vi and Eclipse.
Similarly bytes representing images are only handled by image processing software like Windows photo
or windows paint application and computers use hexadecimal numbers to represent bytes for example characters
is represented using the hexadecimal Korsak 61 which is stored in binary as the byte 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 1
6 corresponds to the first four bits.
Well one for the last four bits not the same bit pattern would represent something else.
In an image file.
Also note that a single byte is represented in one of the two of the six big patterns that is stewpot
8 as a byte has a bits.
So it means we can represent as many as 256 characters using different variations of a byte but to present
more characters we need to use more than one byte.
And that's with a different encoding schemes coming to agree and we will see all of that in about now
since the title of the lesson is character encoding.
We will only look at text representations unprocessed in text is very complex due to the number of languages
involved and also due to the number of ways in which characters in those languages can be represented
Nemeroff is would be a different character encoding schemes so a given text follows some encoding scheme
under the software like say a browser does not understand the character encoding used.
Then you would end up seeing familiar with characters such as this.
This happens usually for international characters.
And so every file uses some encoding scheme to represent its content and then encoding scheme simply
maps every character to a unique x or a similar Amber whose binary representation is just some encoding
scheme is basically an algorithm which maps Karakas to hexadecimal numbers and whose binary representation
are used.
And here's an example of encoding and decoding with regard to encoding character is first and coded
or map to hexadecimal most 61.
And finally the binary equal end of 61 is used for the actual storage.
The recording process is simply the reversal and coding process and here are some example encoding schemes
on each encoding scheme is basically an implementation of some characters.
For instance you be afraid you give 16 and you give 32 or all implementations of Unicode characters
it dumps encoding scheme and characters that are frequently intermixed but to speak precisely they are
different with regards to ASCII.
It can be viewed as both a character set encoding scheme initially only characters that mattered who
are unaccented English letters and for that 7 bit ASCII codes were used.
Here is an example in ASCII hex cards.
What we want to fight we are used to the present uppercase alphabet agency.
But since we also how many other languages soon other 8 bit extensions of ASCII came up.
I also added five line is a standard ascii based extension.
In fact I also did 5:9 had 15 different variations within different regions in the world.
In these extensions the fust one bungee cords were all less identical and would correspond to the 7
bit US-ASCII the remaining 128 CTS is where we see the differences based on the region.
No Asian languages have thousands of letters on 8 bits wasn't sufficient for them.
So this operator do us another encoding scheme called double byte characteristics are DDC as in short
Sagitta all these variations when documents were mailed from one country to another then they are not
getting decoded properly.
For instance a hexadecimal code of a particular character in one country would correspond to a completely
different character in some other country.
Here we can see an example of that the word or as you may in one country get to despair differently
in a different country in this because the second country is Israel.
Here Hicks court for Oxenford e corresponds to the Hebrew character Jamail on Israeli Beezus.
So there were decoding issues and the advent of internet simply made it worse and it became a huge problem
on to this Unicode characters that was invented which aims to cover all languages in the world.
Let's look at some quick facts about Unicode encoding.
It is Mandarin by Unicode Consortium and it is backward compatible with Southern US-ASCII.
So one can be it characters are seen no initial assumption was that 16 bits which would represent 65000
536 characters would suffice to cover all languages and these characters together as a group are referred
to as basic multi-lingual bin or VMP foreshock as a result UCSD which was a fixed length and going skiing
with 16 bits was created when Mr. Fix lent it means that it used exactly 16 bits to represent any character
.
But soon it was realized that there were more characters.
These characters were especially important for Asian markets.
These would also include things like Smiley graphics symbols which we see in various social networking
applications as a result other encoding schemes like usurious for a new age of 16 were created to accommodate
new characters but useless for was not a word as it required 4 bytes for every character.
And so it would be a lot of this based on memory.
According to Wikipedia as of today Unicode covers are on one conduct characters from on 129 scripts
.
So Unicode is really universal.
Now as we just discussed Unicode characters that has two parts.
One is BMB that is the basic multi-lingual plane.
Well second is referred to as supplementary characters and let's just call it as non-being.
So BNP how.
Sixty five thousand five thirty six characters why while B and B probably have it on the five key characters
.
That is as of today and we may expect more characters to be added to non-being be said and the hexadecimal
code that represents each character is referred to as code point on to represent a single BNP character
.
One 16 bit code point is used.
So that's an exciting animal called hoverboard for each supplement we got after 16 bit code points are
used.
Now this illustration also shows a range of code points for both B and B as well as non BMV.
And here's an example of a BMB code point for the Euro symbol.
You place here means Unicode.
I'm going DHC is the actual court which is in hexadecimal.
Of 16 and udy of aid are popular implementations of Unicode.
So let's discuss each of them briefly.
Let's begin with UGF 16.
It is a variable length encoding scheme to represent BNP characters.
It needs two bytes one for non BNP characters it is four bytes for the course and B and B it has a one
to one correspondence.
That is it uses the same hex scores as the code points in B and B.
And this applies to UGF 32 format also no FERNANDE and because UTF 16 uses unicode values put up as
an that you could once just we call that non BMB has to code points for each character.
Each Unicode value has two parts.
Together these two Unicode values are referred to as SoBo get peace with the Unicode value is called
as high Celgard.
Well the second one as Losar target for example here has an emoji symbol which represents the source
of joy and you might have seen it in your walks up keyboard or in other kinds of social networking as
as you can see doing it as a single character.
It's Unicode point is one F-16 or two and it is represented by that subtle get you know Java C-Sharp
on Python are some languages that internally use uty of 16 characters that is internally within the
memory.
And language like Java or visit or present a single character in Yogya of 16 that is even if the character
was decoded from a file that was using a different encoding but when it comes to storing in memory it
gets stored in uty of 16 format.
Not come into UTF 8 it is also available encoding scheme like Yugi of 16 and it gives the first 128
characters that are present the ASCII characters can be represented using a single bite.
And so it is backwards compatible with ASCII for all other characters.
It would require anywhere between Google for bytes and for non VMP characters.
It would be 4 bytes for sure.
So as it needs only one byte for plain-English got a curse it is definitely free for them Yugi of 16
on the other hand needed to bytes even for plain ASCII characters.
So there is some vestige of space when it comes to plain-English characters UTF 8 is also the most popular
encoding scheme on more than half the pages are encoded in UK.
And it was invented by Ken Thompson who also designed and implemented the Unix operating system and
has also invented the beat programming language which is a direct predecessor to the C programming language
.
Just know that you'll be a stands for Unicode transmission format and so it is basically an algorithmic
mapping from every Unicode could point to a unique byte sequence in few minutes.
We will also do a demo when we see how the same code point gets encoded differently using different
and coding schemes.
Norman unicorn's games like U-T of 16 cents the basic unit is two bytes they can be who is in which
those bytes can be stored in memory or even on disk one is quite as big endian or before shot while
the other as low endian or Eliphaz shock in big endian format.
Most significant Byard will be stored at last memory address.
And this is also most commonly used for Mac under default one do while in low endian most significant
byte would be stored at highest memory address and there is something called byte order maake or B-Boy
for.
Which is used to identify the endianness that is big endian on Indian or that it uses a special Unicode
character for big endian the Unicode character is F E F F will follow.
In the end it is all positive it is the reverse F F F G and these byte order marks are placed at the
beginning of a data stream and that or tell if their data stream uses big endian or low end the end
format.
And here is an example.
The first line shows the data stream for the string Hello second line shows the same data stream Magners
big endian while the next one is marked as low endian as you can see the order of MSBA is different
.
So when you add code or the code you can specify the endianness.
For example you can say you have 16 be on you get 16.
LG No one final important thing to note is that you should always decoded data stream using the same
encoding scheme that was used to and coded all it has to be compatible encoding scheme.
For instance if data stream was encoded using ASCII then you can decode it using you defeat as you'd
be if ADAs backward compatible with ASCII.
So that's about it.
Buteyko the resources section for some great pointers on this topic along with some additional notes
.
Altadis mentioned earlier let's not do a quick game off and coding.
OK in this demo we are going to end quote three different characters using different encoding schemes
and the characters are the character the symbol the character Eudo And finally an emoji symbol which
is for B-S of joy in this case.
So the first book out occurs in Euro RBM characters.
Well the last one is a non B and B got a letter and to have this you wrote in your editor in your example
in this because it's eclipse.
For that you need to specify this particular property you should make sure that it is UTF 8.
Only then you will be able to insert it.
So by default inequitably it's going to be C.P. 12:52 on Windows machine.
So you need to make sure that it isn't UGF and corny.
And so in order to apply the encoding we are using this method called print and coding the deaths on
all of all of this and most are are being passed as input to this method.
So let's look at this method.
So the input is a string.
And here we are invoking this method called Get bytes which has a single parameter which accepts the
name of the encoding scheme.
So we are encoding the input symbol with all these different encoding schemes like ASCII Aycock for
isolated 5:09 you are newbie of encoding schemes and it returns it.
And of course it underlines the byte sequence.
OK an R is dot string is basically used to concatenate them those byte sequences so that we can print
it.
So we are applying all these different encoding schemes that you'd be afraid you give 16 UTF 16 beat
.
So it is specific to begin here.
And this is low endian.
And here there is no Indianness.
So it will in Gordon bomb symbol be or m right order mark.
So let's just go ahead and run it and let's look at the notebook for all three of them.
So vastus got a curry and in ASCII it is represented using the numeric symbol 97 which has hexadecimal
code.
But it's displaying on either the byte as the byte for that which is 97 I assume also has the same Euboea
8 also has 97 because you'll be a four ASCII Euboea eight is backward compatible.
And it uses only one byte.
Now you do have 16 users who bytes.
Know that.
But in this case it is also including the bytes far byte order Mach 2 and to indicate the M.B.A..
And in this case it is big endian because you can also see it here it is zero 6:51 and the it is 97
0.
Just the reverse.
So the idea of 60 needs 16 bits and half or euros Inbal ask he said 63.
Anders Neumann equal to 63 corresponds to the character question mark which means that it is unable
to uncoded.
And same goes with us.
We had as be of all you'd be able to do and quoted can be of eight needs three bytes whereas Yukiya
of 16 needs to base.
You can ignore these two bytes here and you'll be 16.
B needs to be NLE also need only two bytes.
So as you can see the böhme is indicated the start of the data stream.
Now let's look at the last one.
Last one is the emoji symbol.
And since it's a non BMB kind of grow it needs it needs Bucco points.
OK.
Even though it's a single Caracara it needs to code points and ASCII cannot handle it.
So when it looks at this first individual Foster-Carter it says I cannot do X.
So to answer a question mark and for the second one it is it do it is supposed to do.
So it prints the corresponding numeric value which is 50 unsane goes with I ISO for UTF 8.
It is able to encode it properly.
So I needs 4 bytes Judaea of 16 needs 4 bytes.
And once again we go we can ignore the first two.
Now your idea of 16 b also needs only 4 bytes.
And this also needs forbearance.
The only difference here is this is 31 5:51.
And here it is 9 to 6:31 0 50 and 50 0.
Now in the browser run the browser looks at this byte sequence.
It should be able it should render a single character.
OK.
The emoji symbol.
Now if the bot browser does not have the capability to to render non-being bmp characters then you will
not be able to see those symbols.
You'll see some other symbol.
So that's that's the thing.
And many US are supporting some of those sort are not supporting I guess so in that case you will just
see some other symbol.
So that's about it.
And sometimes even databases do not support non-ABS characters so they don't like to insert any data
which is not which has an on B and B characters.
You might get some kind of an exception because some databases don't support.
So that's about it.
Hope you liked this character encoding lesson and it's a very fundamental lesson and that's about it
.
Thank you.
And happy coding